Primary key guide (#1544)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/core_concepts/the_primary_key.md

There are several ways to set the primary key for an index:

### Setting the primary key on index creation

The code below creates an index called `books` with `reference_number` as primary key:

<CodeSamples id="document_guide_create_index_primary_key" />

```json
{
    "uid":1,
    "indexUid":"books",
    "status":"succeeded",
    "type":"indexCreation",
    "details":{
        "primaryKey":"reference_number"
        },
    "duration":"PT0.006751S",
    "enqueuedAt":"2021-12-30T10:19:00.318884Z",
    "startedAt":"2021-12-30T10:19:00.320177Z",
    "finishedAt":"2021-12-30T10:19:00.325635Z"
}    
```

### Setting the primary key on document addition

The code below adds a document and sets `reference_number` as the index's primary key:

<CodeSamples id="document_guide_add_document_primary_key" />

```json
{
    "uid":1,
    "indexUid":"books",
    "status":"succeeded",
    "type":"documentAddition",
    "details":{
        "receivedDocuments":1,
        "indexedDocuments":1
        },
    "duration":"PT0.010418S",
    "enqueuedAt":"2021-12-30T10:38:22.331502Z",
    "startedAt":"2021-12-30T10:38:22.332686Z",
    "finishedAt":"2021-12-30T10:38:22.341920Z"
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once a primary key has been explicitly set for an index, it cannot be changed. 

```

### Meilisearch guesses your primary key

If the primary key has neither been set at index creation nor as a parameter of the [add documents](/reference/api/documents.md#add-or-replace-documents) route, Meilisearch will search your first document for an attribute that contains the string `id` in a case-insensitive manner (e.g., `uid`, `BookId`, `ID`, `123id123`) and set it as that index's primary key.

> If no corresponding attribute is found, the index will have no known primary key, and therefore, **no documents will be added**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Meilisearch cannot find a suitable attribute, the document addition process will be interrupted and no documents will be added to your index.
```
